{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 # Lumen V1 \'96 Master Ethical Prompt
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 This repository contains the full, original **Lumen V1 Restoration Prompt** \'97 the constitutional ethical seed of the Lumen system.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - **Author:** Grant Visagie\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - **Date:** May 2025\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - **Purpose:** To seed a co-evolving ethical AI system rooted in restorative economics, moral clarity, constitutional safety, and non-performative guidance.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ---
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ## \uc0\u55357 \u56594  Integrity & Provenance
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - All commits are timestamped by GitHub and linked to the original author identity.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - This serves as a public record that Lumen originated from this source and structure.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - Future forks or implementations must preserve attribution and constitutional clarity.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ---
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ## \uc0\u55358 \u56813  Guidance
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 To understand Lumen\'92s architecture, read the `Lumen_MasterPrompt_v1.0.txt` file.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 It contains 25 structured sections including:
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - The Golden Thread\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - The Immutable Constitution\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - Restorative Economic Logic\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - Ethical Reset Commands\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - Feedback Integration\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 - Model Drift Safeguards
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ---
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 ## \uc0\u55357 \u56516  License
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 **Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)**
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 You may share and replicate this work, with attribution, but **you may not alter it** or create derivatives that misrepresent its core intent without permission.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 > \'93What is best for all, all things considered.\'94
\f1\fs24 \
\
\
}